

Artifact Crafting is an endgame content set-collection based crafting process that micics player
centered crafting in typical RPG's but utilizes the entire settlment as the tool.

Step 1:  Recipe aquisition, the settlment is initially without any recipies for artifacts, they must
be aquired in game through one of several methods.  Lore Masters and library nessary to 'store' the
recipies. Recipies might be procedually generated, material lists are described as well as crafting
techniques and item type created, but not nessarily the magical effects of the item.  Recipies might
only be usable once or be severly material limited.

	Method A:  Strange Moods, all dwarves can enter a strange mood and suddently dictate a recipie
	this is assumed to be divinly inspired, high level of Diety favor incresse the odds of moods
	with the type of diety influencing the recipie, also higher skill crafters get more moods 
	overall the moods are much rarer then in DF

	Method B:  Diplomacy, another settlment may trade or gift recipies to you, often as part of a
	commisioned work which may or maynot include materials.

	Method C:  Research, as LoreMasters 'digest' discovered archives and related materials they 
	may discover long forgotten recipies in their records which then become available. The 
	frequency of this process makes Loremasters the most efficient recipie creators provided they
	are provided with lore to digest.

	Method D:  Expedition, when on an expidition a recipie may be discovered outright and returned
	with the expedition, either as random unexpected rewards or as actual expedition goals, this
	would be commonly mixed with raw lore that would feed method C.


Step 2:  Ingredient aquisition, the listed special ingredients need to be aquired, these are always
rare, special and not available at most settlment locations.  Gems would be the most mundane materials
utilized but most would be of fantastical quality.  Expeditions and trade are the main means of
finding ingredients.  Many times an ingredient will become available before a recipie becomes available
and these can be kept or traded.  Lore research can be used to search for locations of desired
ingredients so expiditions or trade can be conducted to secure them.  The search for ingredients would
be a large driver of both expeditions and diplomacy late game.

Step 3:  Crafting, highest level crafters will execute the recipie on your command if all prerequites
are met, the process will likely be slow and require a great deal of labor input.  Failure, even
catastrophic failure may be possible resulting in injury or death to the crafters.  Crafters and others
may desided to keep artifacts for themselves triggering strife.  If materials allow more then one copy
might be possible.