Rather then the sharp distinction between 'map' space that the player sees and controls and an 'off map' they can't see or see only on a 2D world view Khazad will feature a more concentric decline in the simulation fidelity and player control at distance from the settlement.  A key accesability of all this concentric fidelity will be viewing it not through clicking on a global map, but by simply zooming out the camera, ala 'hyper-zoom' in recent 4X space opera games.

The Inner most area will be comparable to the existing playing paradigm, the fullest level of visual, simulation and control is provided to the player.  Fog-of-war may be calculated continually as Dwarves move around and is displayed to the player.  Conceptually this area is what would be though of as 'in town' or at least 'in the castle' and should be something like a square mile in space ~2000x200o tiles.  This is also the only level which is 3D, all underground devlings being to this fidelity even if the deliving are extending underneath surface areas of lower fidelity.

Second ring would drop pathing simulation down by not having Dwarves actually crunch through the movement process itself, rather an estimated time elapses and they just appear at the destination.  This means that fog of war is continuous in this area so the player dose not see this happening.  In addition pathing is done in a rougher manner between modest sized zones rather then from point to point locations.  Conceptually this is the suburban area in which most farming, foraging, is done, it would extend for several miles around the core area.  Invading armies may trigger higher fidelity simulation in a bubble around themselves so the player can fight them with full accuracy.  At higher levels an army is simply a 'blob/column' of soldiars and can only be engaged via 'off map' activity though obviously not ones that take a long time to resolve if they are only just a few miles away.

3rd ring drops the maps structure down significantly, rather then 256 individual tiles per Cell, the whole cell is monolithic in altitude, vegetation etc etc.  Visually a transition zone may be necessary in which the edges nit together in such a way as to avoid any holes being visible but computationally the transition can be sharp with the visual being a hoax.  Pathing is now even more course as multiple whole Cells can constitute a destination.  This level is now basically rural and can extend for a days ride (40 miles?) out from the town, it is effectively the township and your settlment is still the only settlment or the clear centre of gravity to all habitation.

4th ring is another 256:1 aggregation of Cells into a superCell.  Now the political boundary is that of a kingdom or state and the players settlement is likely no longer the largest.

5th ring dose another 256:1 aggratation for megaCells, now ~4 km on a side.  World map level with area of thousands of square miles, aka middle Earth. 
