Core Requirements:  Required for initial release

3D rendering of terrain comperable to SDL Khazad. 
360 rotation and ~45 degree tilt, wall transparency togglable, slicing etc.

2D sprite charactes, simple set of animations (walk, carry, fall, strike)
Not differentiated by proffession, clothing etc.

Pathfinding for jobs/work/consumption, combat/group pathfinding deffered.

Basic physilogical needs for Dwarves, food, alchol, sleep, social-interaction and work.  
No unique personality or querks.  Basic RPG like attributes with some variation.
Mazlow higherarchy of needs based logic, fufill lower needs first.
Simple fortress happyness agragation 'meter' for player and fortess wide 'we demand X' messages.

Zone system that encompases room/workshop/stockpile/zone concepts under one roof.  
Almost all managment is through use of zones and quotas, NOT Dwarf labor. 
production chains created with 'Kanban' and inventory 'pull' from zone-2-zone.

Designation of dig commands in 3D environment and easy volumetric shapes.
Intelligent AI excavation of multi-level volumes (top down).  
Dig area constitutes work zone which can be controled (turn work on/off). 
special type for ore mining for 'vein following', ore is dug when pulled by production.

XML data based data for most game play related aspects and art assignment.  
Object types, reactions, dwarf phsiological needs and abilities.

Trade able to remove surpluss goods and deliver needed items.
high level items should be difficult to make thus requiring inportation.  
Probably Wagoons and pack animals nessary.
Automated trading by extention of Kanban, 'bazzar' zone pulls/pushes linked stockpiles.



Defered concepts:  Not nessary for initial release but could be added later

Skill gain by individuals
Proffession graphics for individuals
Individual pesonalities querks
Temperatures
Flowing liquids (water/lava)
Goverment/Nobles
Combat/Invasions
Quality levels of Items
Complex Geology/underground
Body systems for individuals
World map

Would like to Do:

Clan structure of Dwarven Society, Patriarch and Matriach of each clan,
some dwarves are clanless but may be adopted into the lower status clans,
clans ranked by degree of honor/age/glory, most Noble clans are royal,
clans allie and feud, clans have clan-halls.  As settlments get huge clans 
take on the position that individuals hold in small settlments for player
managment and attachment.

Gravity and structural stress handled semi-logicly underground and in structures,
floors can not span unlimited distance, caverns roofs can't be unlimited, stress
in rocks/structures needs to be shown some how (cracks?), bad consequences for
ignoring stress but not absolute, some envelope pushing allowed.  Strength of 
rock walls matters, strong stone allows larger spaces, reason to get below soil layer.

Hidden doors, not obvious to intruders but may be discovered with good spot rolls.
Makes design more interesting, alternative to brute force walls and traps.

Promotion similar to AGoD, basic dwarf promotes into 4-5 second tier, military,
laboror, crafter, scolar, and maybe religion too.  Then more radial diversity
with 2-8 choices at each point.  Final 'leaf' positions may be uber "master" type
positions.  Activities done by second-tier dwarves continue to be performed by later
levels, activities are never forgotten, though preference is shown at performing 
higher tier activities.

"Nobles" aka DF are elites within the tree-promotion system and get positions automaticly
once prerequisites are met rather then manual assignment by player, typically population 
counts (7 in branch?) and facilities are prerequsites.  The most elite individual 
below a point in the tree takes each position.  Highest rank under military becomes
Marshal, higherst scolar -> Chancelor, Laboror -> ForeDwarf, Religion -> HighPriest
etc.  Sub trees apoint nobles in a similar manor but simply exclude already assigned
individuals.  Each Noble allows access to new 'panels' for controlling the settlment for
an area that's related to their job, for example the Marshal gives new squad control 
options.

More Emphasis on Religion, consistent Pantheon with consistent gods that can give "favor"
similar to some of the Zeus games.  Priesthoods for each Cult.  Build temples, have
ceremonies in each temple periodicly.  Priests conduct funerals, gin-up the morale
of warriors and commoners, but do NOT heal physical wounds, only spiritual ones.



Improve Hold in multiple directions that Dwarves value

Wealth:  Treashure hoarding
Age:  Plain old enduring, modified by recording of history by Scolars
Skill:  Having large numbers of elite crafters
Reputation:  Political connections with other Holds, fufilling oaths/taking revenge for insults
Lawfullness:  Punish criminals, low crimes rates
Wisdom:  Low deaths?  Religions observance (Piety?)
Glory:  Victory in battles, local or forign

Cumulative of the above: Honor

Individuals, families and Clans accumulate the same values and all get compiled to produce the Holds
overall values.  These 7 values act as the primary players success feed-back indicatiors and quasi-goals
while it is possible to succeed at all it is extreamly difficult because many choices are mutually exclusive

