Release Notes v0.0.6

Khazad has made leaps and bounds in the last few months and now renders objects beyond just the static geometry of a map. The DF extractor is now a fully separate library called DFHack and Peterix continues to add new data extracting features and its seeing use in other viewing programs.

The most noticeable changes are the new User Interface which has real artist-make-artwork.  The simple slider has been upgraded both artistically and functionally, the Red and Blue gems are control points which independently control the top and bottom of the slicing planes, only the area of the map between the planes is rendered.  Grabbing the middle bar between the gems will move both points in unison and the arrows at the top and bottom of the bar do the same with single level precision.  The first panel visible on the splash screen is the Game control panel and performs from left to right the dump from Dwarf Fortress memory, load from file and save to file functionality.

The Camera control panel has been changed as well.  On the top row the buttons mostly toggle between viewing option states.  They are from left to right light gradient toggle, take screen shot, Frame toggle, Hidden toggle, Angle lock and Subterranean toggle.  Each of these (other then take screen shot) toggles on or off rules for rendering.  The second and third rows consist of pairs of buttons that move the camera, from left to right theirs view up/down, rotate camera, explode/contract Z-axis, Zoom and Tilt.  The last two buttons are the Inside and Sunlit toggles, along with the Subterranean toggle in the upper right corner hide or reveal tiles based on the corresponding valuation DF applies to the tile.  The effect is like the hidden button but on by default, the logic is exclusionary if any single test fails the area is not shown.

Stone, wood and metal constructions are now accurately identified and colorized according to easily edited XML files.  In addition the surface type is taken into account, a rough, constructed or smooth floor will look different.  The texture system uses XML to define how the texture combinations work, two colors can be combined in several ways with an optional one pixel borders applied as well.

Tree models and building models can also be rendered and these are likewise specified in XML though due to lack of models only a few of each are included.  We are eager to get more models included if artists are willing to let us use them.  Be warned models put a big load on the renderer and you won't want to get too many trees in the camera at once.

The mouse based camera controls not changed, press the center mouse wheel (just press down and hold without scrolling) to Tilt or Orbit the camera.  Clicking the left mouse positions the cursor, each click on the map will move the cube there and a second click in the same tile will center the camera on that spot, pressing (c) will also center on the cursor.  The cubes xyz coordinates are displayed in the debugging output.

The map editing capacity that had previously been activated by pressing (d) has now been moved to a new panel and been expanded with a 'make ramp' and 'channel' options. This mostly lets us experiment with the map data structure and isn't really useful for anything other then as a very very small scale reveal cheat.  Currently none of the changes get applied to DF but we might try to do that in the future.

Screen shots can now be taken, pressing "PrtScr SysRQ" (Print Screen System Request) will save as screen shot in the Screen Shots folder, numbering is automatic starting with zero and shoots should not get overwritten.  A camera button on the UI also saves screen shoots.

Screen shoots of buggy or undesirable behaviors are welcome along with advice on where the project should go.  A number of people are getting buggy behavior and I'm hoping to find more testers to help track down the source of these bugs, if someone with a reproducible bug can program as well and try to track down a bug and its fix on their system that would be greatly appreciated.


Keyboard Controls:

c: Centers view to cursor

Up/Down/Left/Right: pans view in 4 cardinal directions
NumPad: pans view in 8 cardinal directions


Mouse Controls:

ScrollwheelUp: Zooms view in
ScroolWheelDown: Zooms view out

Right Button down + horizontal mouse movement: pans camera view rightward/leftward
Right Button down + vertical mouse movement: advances/retreats camera view

Middle Button down + horizontal mouse movement: Rotates camera view clockwise/counterclockwise
Middle Button down + vertical mouse movement: Tilts camera view vertical/near-horizontal

ScrollwheelUp + SHIFT: Moves view up/down one level (same as Up/Down)
ScroolWheelDown + SPACEBAR: Increase/decrease number of viewing levels (same as Insert/Delete)


Known Issues:

- Expanding the window after the game has started will create a 'dead zone' outside of the original area of the screen ware mouse inputs will not work even though the mouse is movable and displays.  Using Fullscreen mode or just setting the Config for a very large screen area is the best work-around for now.

- CPU Hog, Khazad is capped at 60 FPS using SDL_Delay but on many systems it will still use upwards of 99% of the processor when viewing a large area and might put too much stress on your system or video card, feedback is appreciated.  The FPS readout is based on the time that rendering itself took and frequently exceeds 60, when ever it dose your processor should go below 100% utilization.  At this point the readout is more theoretical then actual it represents the FPS you would be creating if Khazad weren't throttling back.

- Textures may be missing from the Material assignment system, fortunately this is modable and anyone can edit their Texture and Material xml files to re-assign any texture combination

- Glaciers in DF are stored in a weird way that Khazad has not yet compensated for, its recommended that you avoid using Khazad on maps with Glaciers.

- The level of a liquid is not represented accurately, any liquid will appear as a full tile